The products of technology such as machines that have become everyday parts of our lives are no longer simple tools, but their meanings in our lives have expanded into something more complex.
The products of technology,influence and change the sense of perception and emotional state of people.

Machines extend the lifespan of humans and also make the lives of humans more convenient.
Machines have become such an important part of our human lives that we cannot live without them, once we have benefited from such experience.
machine is very useful and can be used to obtain a gain in speed.A machine can be used to lift a load in one direction by applying an effort in a convenient direction. 
New inventions have changed the trajectory of the lives of humans.
Using ultrasound technologies enable us to see babies that have not been born yet
the day and age has come where we can change our physical traits that are not to our liking
technology is not just an aspect of our life, rather it is a norm on which we rely upon to sustain our lives.
By the 1960s, technology was having a greater influence in people‟s lives than ever before and began to define human culture.
Some people admired the rapid technological developments and thought that we had found a resolution to problems such as starvation and disease.
After the Industrial Revolution, a continuous development of scientific technologies in industry brought us material affluence.
Efficiency and product output have increased and spatial distance has decreased. But, also, there have been some adverse effects on cultural development.
A technologically advanced and automated society conflicts and infringes upon traditional consciousness and values.
We cannot ignore the benefits and conveniences that an industrialized society may offer.
we are losing our identity as a people and a culture. As more and more modern advancements change our daily lives, humans should also try to stay in tune with nature.
“Boundary between humans and machines:
Machine is not harmull , they are build to help ease our work
Cyborg‟ is a word abbreviation of the term cybernetic organism. It means the incorporation of the body of a living organism and machine devices as one.
Even though these mechanical elements cannot operate alone, they can replace biological organs or function in conjunction with a biological body. Artificial retinas,pacemakers and neurological devices are examples of these.
Technology has replacements for sensory, muscular-skeletal and other organs of the BBC Online news 25 April, 2002 11 human body, which leads to the transition of becoming cyborgs.
There is another word „Android‟. The word „Android‟ means the appearance of being a human, but with the internal mechanics exactly the same as a robot.
These two words demonstrate that the boundary between human and machine is very vague. In other words, we are losing our original human nature.
We have imagined these phenomena in the movies or novels, but now we are actualizing this virtual reality into our real lives.
The Movie ,Surrogate illustrates an example of how the border between human and machine can be collapsed.n the film‟s nearfuture setting, humans have withdrawn from everyday life almost completely. Instead, they hole up in their homes and send robotic versions of themselves, called “surrogates,” into the real world.
The movies give rise to the question about what human existence means in such a society. Even though, these examples are virtual stories, the 21‟st century is heading to the virtualized life portrayed in the movies.

Influences: Style and Artists:

Center Pompidou represented the architecture of a machine aesthetic. Machine aesthetic means something machine-made, acknowledging industrialization, mass-production, and engineering, or that uses elements of metal structures.
Originally, machines did not involve any aesthetic representation or design. The engineers focused more on performance and function.
But, by the end of the 19th century, the outward beauty of machinery became interesting and this attracted the attention of designers and artists. Consequently, a new concept of “machinery aesthetic” emerged in modern art.
Fernand Léger . Léger was the first but represents other artists who take the mechanical aesthetic as their own paradigm.He interpreted objects as mechanisms and helped create Cubism, which dynamically treated people and nature as machine-like images.
When machines did not exist, abortions were difficult and dangerous. The invention of machines has changed life‟s direction for each generation.
Human emotions are segmented in various ways. They face new problems, depending on time and the environment, and then experience new emotions. With the invention of the computer, game addicts appear which causes maladaptive phenomena like socio-phobia or social maladjustment.
The cause for the children's passive and clumsy expression of their emotions can be found in genetics, and at the same time, they are greatly affected by educational methods and lifestyles
the maladaptation of lack of emotions caused by computers, smart phones and games gradually makes human emotions colder.
Humans think about psychological boundaries of robots in addition to physical ones while interacting with them.
he notion of social robots often evokes the idea of humanoid social robots
past research suggests that it can be conceived of as a concept that implies information and communication technologies (ICTs) turning into a human-like entity as well as humans turning into ICTs.
Once one accepts that the commonly used ICTs such as mobile phones can be conceived of as social robots.
ICTs are potentially turning humans into social robots, one realizes that it is time to give significant scientific efforts to examine the impact of social robots including the ambivalent relationship between ICTs and the human body.
An AI or Machice takeover is a hypothetical scenario in which some form of machine (AI) becomes the dominant form of intelligence on Earth.
Possible scenarios include replacement of the entire human workforce, takeover by a superintelligent AI, and the popular notion of a robot uprising.
The traditional consensus among economists has been that technological progress does not cause long-term unemployment.
However, recent innovation in the fields of robotics and machine has raised worries that human labor will become obsolete, leaving people in various sectors without jobs to earn a living, leading to an economic crisis.
any small and medium size businesses may also be driven out of business if they will not be able to afford or licence the latest robotic and AI technology, and may need to focus on areas or services that cannot easily be replaced for continued viability in the face of such technology.
Computer-integrated manufacturing is the manufacturing approach of using computers to control the entire production process.
This integration allows individual processes to exchange information with each other and initiate actions.
Although manufacturing can be faster and less error-prone by the integration of computers, the main advantage is the ability to create automated manufacturing processes.
The 21st century has seen a variety of skilled tasks partially or jobs taken over by machines, including translation, legal research and even low level journalism. Care work, entertainment, and other tasks requiring empathy, previously thought safe from automation, have also begun to be performed by robots.
An autonomous car is a vehicle that is capable of sensing its environment and navigating without human input. Many such vehicles are being developed, but as of May 2017 automated cars permitted on public roads are not yet fully autonomous.
Among the main obstacles to widespread adoption of autonomous vehicles, are concerns about the resulting loss of driving-related jobs in the road transport industry.
Technology Can be dangerous sometimes like  March 18, 2018, the first human was killed by an autonomous vehicle in Tempe, Arizona by an Uber self-driving car.
Scientists such as Stephen Hawking are confident that superhuman artificial intelligence is physically possible, stating "there is no physical law precluding particles from being organised in ways that perform even more advanced computations than the arrangements of particles in human brains".
According to Bostrom, a superintelligent machine would not necessarily be motivated by the same emotional desire to collect power that often drives human beings.
AI Or machine takeover is a common theme in science fiction.
Nick Bostrom and others have expressed concern that an AI with the abilities of a competent artificial intelligence researcher would be able to modify its own source code and increase its own intelligence.
code replicating is possible , If its self-reprogramming leads to its getting even better at being able to reprogram itself, the result could be a recursive intelligence explosion where it would rapidly leave human intelligence far behind.
A significant problem is that unfriendly or evil or crazy machine intelligence is likely to be much easier to create than friendly machine intelligence.
Physicist Stephen Hawking, Microsoft founder Bill Gates and SpaceX founder Elon Musk have expressed concerns about the possibility that AI could develop to the point that humans could not control it, with Hawking theorizing that this could "spell the end of the human race"
Success in creating machine intelligence would be the biggest event in human history. Unfortunately, it might also be the last, unless we learn how to avoid the risks.







