IOS is better than android.

Developer - Apple Inc.

Initial release	- July 29, 2007.

Latest stable release and Updates - iOS 14.1 and iPadOS 14.1.

Customizability	- Limited unless jailbroken.

Source model - Closed, with open source components.

File transfer - More difficult. Media files can be transferred using iTunes desktop app. Photos can be transferred out via USB without apps.

Widgets	- Yes, except on lockscreen.

Internet browsing - Safari. Any browser app can be set as default but they all use the same rendering engine (Safari/Webkit) behind the scenes. Ad blocking is supported via content blockers like Firefox Focus.

Web mapping service - Apple Maps (default). Google Maps also available via a separate app download, but not as default.

Available language(s) - 40 languages.

Video chat - FaceTime (Apple devices only) and other 3rd party apps.

Virtual assistant - Siri.

Available on - iPod Touch, iPhone, iPad, Apple TV (2nd and 3rd generation).

Calls and messaging - iMessage, FaceTime (with other Apple devices only). 3rd party apps like Google Hangouts, Facebook Messenger, WhatsApp, Google Duo, Discord and Skype all work on Android and iOS both.

App store , Affordability and interface	- Apple App Store – 1,000,000+ apps. Apps containing virus very rare or nonexistent.

Alternative app stores and side loading	- Apple blocks 3rd party app stores. The phone needs to be jailbroken if you want to download apps from other stores.

Battery life and management - Apple batteries are generally not as big as the largest Android batteries. However, Apple is able to squeeze decent battery life via hardware/software optimizations.

Open source - The iOS kernel is not open source but is based on the open-source Darwin OS.

File manager - Files app, limited and less useful (iOS 12).

Photos & Videos backup - Up to 5 GB of photos and videos can be automatically back up with iCloud, more paid iCloud storage available via subscription. All other vendors like Google, Amazon, Dropbox, Flickr and Microsoft have auto-backup apps for both iOS and Android.

Security - Occasional security updates. Security threats rare, because iOS is locked and downloading apps out of the App Store is complicated.

Rooting, bootloaders, and jailbreaking - Complete control over your device is not available.

Cloud services - Native integration with iCloud. 5GB free, 50GB for $1/mo, 200GB for $3/mo, 1TB for $10/mo. Apps available for Google Drive and Google Photos, Amazon Photos, OneDrive and Dropbox.

Interface - Touch Screen

Biometric Authentication - Fingerprint or Face Authentication. Touch ID available on iPhone (5s and later) and iPad (Air 2 and later) but not on iPhone X or later. Face ID available on iPhone X and later, replacing Touch ID

OS family - OS X, UNIX

Headphone Jack	- None on iPhone 7 and later, lighting to 3.5mm no longer comes with phone after iPhone XS.